---
title: 18.8 Bibliographic Notes
summary: >
  第 693-694 页。

date: 2022-04-01T11:00:00+08:00
draft: true 

weight: 1808

---

Many references were given at specific points in this chapter; we give some
additional ones here. Dudoit et al. (2002a) give an overview and compar-
ison of discrimination methods for gene expression data. Levina (2002)
does some mathematical analysis comparing diagonal LDA to full LDA, as
p, N → ∞ with p > N . She shows that with reasonable assumptions diago-
nal LDA has a lower asymptotic error rate than full LDA. Tibshirani et al.
(2001a) and Tibshirani et al. (2003) proposed the nearest shrunken-centroid
classifier. Zhu and Hastie (2004) study regularized logistic regression. High-
dimensional regression and the lasso are very active areas of research, and
many references are given in Section 3.8.5. The fused lasso was proposed
by Tibshirani et al. (2005), while Zou and Hastie (2005) introduced the
elastic net. Supervised principal components is discussed in Bair and Tib-
shirani (2004) and Bair et al. (2006). For an introduction to the analysis
of censored survival data, see Kalbfleisch and Prentice (1980).

Microarray technology has led to a flurry of statistical research: see for
example the books by Speed (2003), Parmigiani et al. (2003), Simon et al.
(2004), and Lee (2004).

The false discovery rate was proposed by Benjamini and Hochberg (1995),
and studied and generalized in subsequent papers by these authors and694
many others. A partial list of papers on FDR may be found on Yoav Ben-
jamini’s homepage. Some more recent papers include Efron and Tibshirani
(2002), Storey (2002), Genovese and Wasserman (2004), Storey and Tib-
shirani (2003) and Benjamini and Yekutieli (2005). Dudoit et al. (2002b)
review methods for identifying differentially expressed genes in microarray
studies.